
Why Dividing by N Underestimates the Variance
What is a (mathematical) model?
StatTest!
Hypothesis Testing and the Null Hypothesis
Alternative Hypothesis: Main Ideas
False Discovery Rate (FDR), Clearly Explained
Statistical Power, Clearly Explained
Power Analysis, Clearly Explained
Covariance, Clearly Explained
Pearson’s Correlation, Clearly Explained
What does it mean to “sample from a distribution”?
StatTest!
Three more lessons from my Pop!!!
Expected Values Part 1, Main Ideas!!! (Expected Values for Discrete Variables)
Expected Values Part 2, Continuous Variables
The Difference between Technical and Biological Replicates
StatTest!
The sample size and the effective sample size
StatTest!
The Standard Error
Bootstrapping Part 1: Main Ideas
Bootstrapping Part 2: Calculating p-values
Bar Charts Are Better Than Pie Charts
Boxplots, Clearly Explained
Logs (logarithms), clearly explained
The log base ‘e’ song.
How to make your own StatQuest!!!
Confidence Intervals
R-squared explained
StatTest!

Linear Models Part 0: Fitting a line to data, aka Least Squares, aka Linear Regression
Fitting a curve to data, aka Lowess, aka Loess
Sample Code
Linear Models Part 1: Linear Regression
Study Guide
Linear Models: Linear Regression in R
Sample Code
Linear Models Part 1.5: Multiple Regression
Linear Models: Multiple Regression in R
Sample Code
Linear Models Part 2: t-tests and ANOVA
Linear Models Part 3: Design Matrices
Linear Models: Design Matrix Examples in R
Sample Code

Quantiles and Percentiles
StatTest!
Quantile-Quantile Plots (QQ Plots)
Quantile Normalization
StatTest!
Maximum Likelihood: A worked out example for the exponential distribution
Maximum Likelihood: A worked out example for the binomial distribution
Maximum Likelihood: A worked out example for the normal distribution
Odds and Log(Odds)
Odds Ratios and Log(Odds Ratios) NOTE: This video also covers 3 significance tests associated with log(odds ratios): Fisher’s Exact Test, Chi-square test, and The Wald Test.
Statistical Tests:
Enrichment Analysis using Fisher’s Exact Test and the Hypergeometric Distribution
Which t-test to use
Thresholds for Significance
FDR and the Benjamini-Hochberg Method clearly explained
